# COMP5517 15% Assignment 1 (1 individual assignment)
- Read 1 paper out of 6, and find 1 similar paper online (6 papers on Human Computer Interaction will be assigned for selection)
  1. Kwan, K. C., & Fu, H. (2019, May). Mobi3dsketch: 3d sketching in mobile ar. In Proceedings of the 2019 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (pp. 1-11).
  2. Tian, Y., Bai, Y., Zhao, S., Fu, C. W., Yang, T., & Heng, P. A. (2020, April). Virtually-extended proprioception: Providing spatial reference in vr through an appended virtual limb. In Proceedings of the 2020 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (pp. 1-12).
  3. Marquardt, A., Maiero, J., Kruijff, E., Trepkowski, C., Schwandt, A., Hinkenjann, A., ... & Stuerzlinger, W. (2018, November). Tactile hand motion and pose guidance for 3d interaction. In Proceedings of the 24th ACM Symposium on Virtual Reality Software and Technology (pp. 1-10).
  4. Wu, Y., Xie, X., Wang, J., Deng, D., Liang, H., Zhang, H., ... & Chen, W. (2018). Forvizor: Visualizing spatio-temporal team formations in soccer. IEEE transactions on visualization and computer graphics, 25(1), 65-75.
  5. Wang, B. X., Wang, Y. W., Chen, Y. K., Tseng, C. M., Hsu, M. C., Hsieh, C. A., ... & Chen, M. Y. (2020, April). Miniature Haptics: Experiencing Haptic Feedback through Hand-based and Embodied Avatars. In Proceedings of the 2020 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (pp. 1-8).
  6. Lin, S. S., Morace, C. C., Lin, C. H., Hsu, L. F., & Lee, T. Y. (2017). Generation of escher arts with dual perception. IEEE transactions on visualization and computer graphics, 24(2), 1103-1113.
- Write a 1-Page Summary for the 2 papers



## Paper 1 Title: Mobi3DSketch: 3D Sketching in Mobile AR
There are many challenges in creating precise 3D sketching using mobile. Therefore, Kwan & Fu (2019) proposed a new Mobile 3D Sketching system named Mobi3DSketch, which is combing Augmented Reality (AR) and allows the user to draw 2D or 3D objects relative to real-world surfaces and able to translate, rotate, scale, and so forth operations to interact with them. In the system's main components, the 3D strokes are used to draw the objects, and the snapping point, as well as surface proxies, will be used for relative drawing. It will locate the surface of the natural world, and strokes will be projected on it. Besides, different interactions will occur in the application described before, such as auto-detect surface proxies, snapping the nearest point automatically, and other tools to help the user draw the sketch.

Moreover, the paper conducted two user studies to evaluate the effectiveness of its usage in sketching, including non-specify background students completing four drawing tasks using five different drawing methods and drawing background students creating 3D sketches to decorate the real world. The users generally reported being satisfied with this new system, but there are differences in objects with varying depths. Finally, concluded it validates the system value in effectiveness and expressiveness, explains the system highly dependent on motion tracking of ARKit of limitation, and builds the complex 3D model as further work.



## Paper 2 Title: Berlin brain–computer interface—The HCI communication channel for discovery
Developments in signal processing and data analysis offer more possibilities for Brain-Computer Interface (BCI) and pose challenges for future innovative human-computer interaction (HCI) research. Therefore, the contribution briefed several non-invasive methods for monitoring brain activity and introduced the BCI based on electroencephalography (EEG), which outperforms the remaining techniques. Explained different types of BCI, such as visual-evoked, motor imagery, cortical activation and so forth, but there have some limitations, including performance, only being available in specific ranges, and training time. Therefore, it presents Berlin Brain-Computer Interface (BBCI), a non-invasive EEG-based online BCI, to solve the challenges. In the details of the BBCI, the user must put the brain cap connected to several computers on their head for data collection and exploration. After that, it will classify the user action using several mathematical models and combine the results. It is included error detection about the erroneously emitted commands to improve accuracy. At the same time, the user is required to perform certain imagination tasks to collect the EEG to train the models before the classification. In the following, the paper conducted different types of studies to evaluate BBIC and provides the possible interactive feedback of BBIC, which includes left and right events, stepwise displacement and graded displacement of the "Ping Pong" game, jumping-cross of the "Pacman" game and control of the virtual arm. 

In conclusion, the authors pointed out that the HCI research field is expanding, covering Brain-Computer interaction and communication. Hope for future research on the use of BBIC in patients who cannot control or lose their limbs, future improvement in the accuracy, and the potential of BBCI, including areas of rehabilitation and gaming.


